Develop (#1)
membraneframework/membrane_timescaledb_reporter: README.md

# Membrane.Telemetry.TimescaleDB

> TimescaleDB metrics reporter for telemetry events emitted [Membrane Core](https://hex.pm/packages/membrane_core).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TimescaleDB metrics reporter for telemetry events emitted by [Membrane Core](https://hex.pm/packages/membrane_core).
```

Reporter attaches itself to [Telemetry package](https://hex.pm/packages/telemetry) and listens for events declared and documented in Membrane Core's module `Membrane.Telemetry`.

## Requirements
 - PostgreSQL server instance compatible with TimescaleDB extension.

## Installation

To make use of the reporter you should add it as a dependency in your application along with `membrane_core`.

If [available in Hex](https://hex.pm/docs/publish), the package can be installed

> by adding `membrane_timescaledb_reporter` to your list of dependencies in `mix.exs`:

Reviewer: These sentences say more or less the same, deduplicate

```elixir
def deps do
  [
    {:membrane_timescaledb_reporter, "~> 0.1.0"}
  ]
end
```

First of all you will need to provide database information inside your `config.exs` e.g: 
```elixir
config :membrane_timescaledb_reporter, Membrane.Telemetry.TimescaleDB.Repo,
  database: "membrane_timescaledb_reporter",
  username: "postgres",
  password: "postgres",
  hostname: "localhost",
  chunk_time_interval: "3 minutes",
  chunk_compress_policy_interval: "1 minute"
```

Attributes worth mentioning are `chunk_time_interval` and
`chunk_compress_policy_interval`, both are TimescaleDB specific.
Adjust them accordingly to your membrane pipeline configuration and
amount of incoming events. For quick testing shorter intervals might be preferable as metrics can accumulate very fast. 

 - `chunk_time_interval` is used for hyper table creation, more in [documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/latest/api#hypertable-management)

>  - `chunk_compress_policy_interval` is used as time interval for timescale's daemon compressing chunks, more in [documentation](https://docs.timescale.com/latest/api#add_compress_chunks_policy).

Reviewer: These explanations should be before `Adjust them....`

Additional reporter options are:
```elixir
config :membrane_timescaledb_reporter,
  reporter_name: "membrane-timescaledb-handler",
  flush_timeout: 5000,
  flush_threshold: 1000
```

 - `reporter name` - name under which reporter will register its handler inside Telemetry package
 - `flush_timeout` - timeout in miliseconds after which metrics will be flushed, no matter how many of them are currently in the buffer
 - `flush_threshold` - threshold after which cached metrics will be flushed to TimescaleDB  

After setting up config you will need to run `ecto.create` and `ecto.migrate` for `Membrane.Telemetry.TimescaleDB.Repo`:
```bash
mix ecto.create -r Membrane.Telemetry.TimescaleDB.Repo && mix ecto.migrate -r Membrane.Telemetry.TimescaleDB.Repo
```

## Database Architecture
Reporter will create two tables:

> #### Table: metrics

Reviewer: This table holds only one `metric` - input buffer size

Author: Not exactly, you might want to provide additional information inside `method` column that will indicate other module than `InputBuffer` or even add another column in the future. It stores single metric for now as we don't use more in Core yet.

|      Column     |             Type            |
|:---------------:|:---------------------------:|
|       time      | timestamp without time zone |
| element_path_id |           integer           |
|      method     |    character varying(255)   |
|      value      |           integer           |

### Table: element_paths
| Column |          Type          |
|:------:|:----------------------:|
|   id   |         bigint         |
|  path  | character varying(255) |

Full element paths can be quite lengthy and repeat frequently so they are stored in separate table.

Timescale will create hyper table based on `metrics` table and only this table will be chunked and further compressed.

## Basic TimescaleDB and Grafana setup

> Basic docker-compose setup of timescaledb and grafana with simple grafana dashboard can be found in `example_setup` folder.

Reviewer: This `example_setup` seems incomplete:
What's the point of this docker-compose? It doesn't make much sense if you're not providing instructions how to use it.
Same goes for the dashboard you should instruct users how to use it

> Before using grafana dashboard make sure you have added postgres data source and marked timescale extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before using Grafana dashboard make sure you have added PostgreSQL data source and marked TimescaleDB extension.
```

Reviewer: Having no experience with Grafana I have no idea what does it mean to 'mark timescale extension', this sentence makes me clueless about what should I really do

## Copyright and License

Copyright 2020, [Software Mansion](https://swmansion.com/?utm_source=git&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=membrane)

[![Software Mansion](https://logo.swmansion.com/logo?color=white&variant=desktop&width=200&tag=membrane-github)](
https://swmansion.com/?utm_source=git&utm_medium=readme&utm_campaign=membrane)

> Licensed under the [Apache License, Version 2.0](LICENSE)

Reviewer: LICENSE file is missing, you can find it in template repo
